
Requirements:

To build xload-snmp you need to have the headers and libs for UCD SNMP
as well as the regular X11 stuff. UCD SNMP is available at
http://ucd-snmp.ucdavis.edu

Installation:

Is straightforward. Do:

~$ xmkmf -a
~$ make
~# make install install.man

USAGE:

The new executable will do everything the old xload did, plus some new
SNMP-related flags. A typical invocation to monitor the load of the host
systhug would look like:

~$ xload -peername 'systhug' -community ~/.server-load -oid 'laLoadFloat.1'

Or an alternative with the -factor option:

~$ xload -peername 'systhug' -community ~/.server-load -oid 'laLoadInt.1' \
   -factor 100

Read the manpage for more details.

TODO:

I'm not really familiar with SNMP, or Xt, so there should probably be lots
of crossbar testing with various SNMP servers to make sure it works like
it should.

We don't yet deal with return values which might be strings. i.e. a string
result of "1.000" should be acceptable. If we get a string that's not a
number we should gracefully... exit? not plot?

64 bit integer return values are also not tested. The value into which we
are storing the returned SNMP data is a double, I'm just not sure how it
will react to a 64 bit return value.

Folding back in with the main xload source base would be nice. Does anyone
maintain that?

Binary packages.

A -delta flag which remembers the last response value and plots the
_difference_ between that value and the current value. This would allow
meaningful plots of values which only increase. For instance, plotting
some kind of TotalPacketsOut counter with the -delta flag would
essentially give packets out per second.

I've found a GtkStripChart widget. If it's any good I might try switching
to Gtk. Why? I think it would be neat if you could mouse over a point on
the histogram and a tool tip would tell you what _time_ that point was
plotted. This would probably be easier to do by adding to or subclassing
GtkStripChart than by staying with Athena. Gtk would allow me an escape
from Athena and Xt lossage in general.

