.\" $XConsortium: xload.man,v 1.29 94/04/17 20:43:44 matt Exp $
.TH XLOAD 1 "Release 6" "X Version 11"
.SH NAME
xload \- system load average display for X
.SH SYNOPSIS
.ta 6n
\fBxload\fP	[-\fItoolkitoption\fP ...] [-scale \fIinteger\fP] [-update \fIseconds\fP] [-hl \fIcolor\fP] [-highlight \fIcolor\fP] 
.br
	[-jumpscroll \fIpixels\fP] [-label \fIstring\fP] [-nolabel] [-lights]
.br
	[-peername \fIstring\fP] [-oid \fIstring\fP] [-community \fIstring\fP]
.SH DESCRIPTION
The 
.I xload 
program displays a periodically updating histogram of the system load average.
.SH OPTIONS
.PP
.I Xload
accepts all of the standard X Toolkit command line options (see \fIX(1)\fP).
The order of the options in unimportant.  \fIxload also accepts the
following additional options:
.PP
.TP 8
.B \-hl \fIcolor\fP or \-highlight \fIcolor\fP
This option specifies the color of the scale lines.  
.TP 8
.B \-jumpscroll \fPnumber of pixels\fP
The number of pixels to shift the graph to the left when the graph
reaches the right edge of the window.  The default value is 1/2 the width
of the current window.  Smooth scrolling can be achieved by setting it to 1.
.TP 8
.B \-label \fIstring\fP
The string to put into the label above the load average.
.TP 8
.B \-nolabel
If this command line option is specified then no label will be
displayed above the load graph.
.TP 8
.B \-lights
When specified, this option causes
.I xload
to display the current load average by using the keyboard leds; for
a load average of \fIn\fP, xload lights the first \fIn\fP keyboard leds.
This option turns off the usual screen display.
.TP 8
.B \-scale \fIinteger\fP
This option specifies the minimum number of tick marks in the histogram,
where one division represents one load average point.  If the load goes
above this number, \fIxload\fP will create more divisions, but it will never
use fewer than this number.  The default is 1.
.PP
.TP 8
.B \-update \fIseconds\fP
This option specifies the interval in seconds at which \fIxload\fP
updates its display.  The minimum amount of time allowed between updates
is 1 second.  The default is 10.
.PP
.TP 8
.B \-peername \fIstring\fP
The name of the SNMP host to query.
.PP
.TP 8
.B \-oid \fIstring\fP
The SNMP OID to query.
.PP
.TP 8
.B \-community \fIstring\fP
The name of a \fIfile\fP containing the community string needed to
retrieve the OID from the host. The community string is kept in a file so
that it does not have to appear on the command line. The file may contain
any number of comment lines, which start with a '#'. The only other valid
record type is the community string on a line by itself. The community
string should not exceed 256 characters.
.PP
.TP 8
.B \-factor \fIfloat\fP
An optional scaling factor. -factor is currently only used when using
SNMP. The value returned by each SNMP query is divided by the scaling
factor before being plotted on the histogram. Use -factor to scale down
very large values and keep the histogram legible. You can also scale
\fIup\fP by specifying a factor of less than 1. A factor of zero is not
allowed.
.PP
.TP 8
.B \-delta
Instead of plotting the actual values plot the difference between the
current value and the previous value. This is useful for plotting rates of
change using a counter which normally only increases. Currently this
option only works when using SNMP.
.SH RESOURCES
In addition to the resources available to each of the widgets used by 
\fIxload\fP there are resources defined by the application itself.
.TP 8
.B showLabel (\fPclass\fB Boolean)
If False then no label will be displayed.
.SH WIDGETS
In order to specify resources, it is useful to know the hierarchy of
the widgets which compose \fIxload\fR.  In the notation below,
indentation indicates hierarchical structure.  The widget class name
is given first, followed by the widget instance name.
.sp
.nf
.ta .5i 1.0i 1.5i 2.0i
XLoadSNMP  xload-snmp
	Paned  paned
		Label  label
		StripChart  load
.fi
.sp
.SH ENVIRONMENT
.PP
.TP 8
.B DISPLAY
to get the default host and display number.
.TP 8
.B XENVIRONMENT
to get the name of a resource file that overrides the global resources
stored in the RESOURCE_MANAGER property.
.SH FILES
<XRoot>/lib/X11/app-defaults/XLoadSNMP - specifies required resources
.SH SEE ALSO
X(1), xrdb(1), mem(4), Athena StripChart Widget.
.SH BUGS
This program requires the ability to open and read the special system
file \fI/dev/kmem\fP.  Sites that do not allow general access to this file
should make \fIxload\fP belong to the same group as \fI/dev/kmem\fP and
turn on the \fIset group id\fP permission flag.
.PP
Reading /dev/kmem is inherently non-portable.  Therefore, the routine
used to read it (get_load.c) must be ported to each new operating system. 
.SH COPYRIGHT
Copyright ([\d,\s]*) X Consortium
.br
See \fIX(1)\fP for a full statement of rights and permissions.
.SH AUTHORS
K. Shane Hartman (MIT-LCS) and Stuart A. Malone (MIT-LCS);
.br
with features added by Jim Gettys (MIT-Athena), Bob Scheifler (MIT-LCS),
Tony Della Fera (MIT-Athena), and Chris Peterson (MIT-LCS).
